---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E6 Evaluation Guidelines and Class Retrospective BLOG
date: 2021-05-15
labels:
---


Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)

My system is an online retailer for gaming consoles. It displays various pages for the different gaming consoles. I offer 3 different brands of consoles and each have their own generation of consoles. The first page contains Playstation (PS5 and PS4), second page contains Xbox (Series X and 360), and the last page contains Nintendo (Switch).

Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?

There were a few problems and features not implemented in my code. I was not able to get the user sent to the login page when they are trying to purchase their items, I was not able to get my site to email the user after completing their purchase, and I had issues trying to limit the registration to only allow the user to input letters and certain lengths when registering for their account. Also, another additional feature I wanted to implement that I was unable to was displaying when something was added to cart because on my site if you put quantities in the textbox and press add to cart there is no indication if it is in your cart or not.

Describe what you are most proud of about your system:

What I am most proud of about my system are how smooth it is transitioning from the different pages and when adding things to the cart it is stored in the session. So if you go to the cart and decide you want to go back to the products and add more items, your previous items added in the cart will still be there.

Describe what you are least happy with your system:

What I am least happy about with my system are not having a fully complete completed purchase page and not having items having any indicator that shows items were added to the cart.

How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?

Developing was quite different from Assignment #2 because we had to implement sessions and cookies that would store data for a specific user and pass through multiple pages. Also, we had to send a confirmation email to the user after completing their purchase which was something we have not done before.

When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?

When I ran into issues I would rewatch the screencast and try to analyze the problem carefully, but when I was lost I would schedule office hours with Professor Port to help clarify the issues I was having.

Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?

What worked well in doing this assignment was watching the screencast over and going into office hours with Professor Port to help me go over and understand my code better.

Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?

What did not work well in doing this assignment was copying code I did not fully understand and most times the code is different from my own code so it usually would not work. This would get me slightly lost in my own code.

What did you learn from doing this assignment?

From this assignment I learned that I gotta take my time and slowly go piece by piece for each task to fully understand what the code does. This makes it easier to test and fix errors in the code. Also, I learned how to use cookies and sessions to store user data while moving from different pages.

If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?

If I could go back in time the things I would do differently are going into office hours more often to request for help and start on the assignment more earlier. I was already behind and trying to catch up by finishing/fixing my Assignment 1 & 2 to be functional for Assignment 3, so I started Assignment 3 really late. This really affected me because I had less time to work on Assignment 3.

Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging

I spent 30% of my time thinking about how to do something, 20% on writing code, and 50% on testing and debugging.

Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)

I worked on this assignment by myself.
