---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 Progress in Programming Report
date: 2021-04-06
labels:
---
My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:

Up to this point of completing the WODs and Assignment 1, I can say I learned a lot and improved on my problem-solving skills. I am able to understand and read code. I am very critical when it comes to analyzing my code for errors because having one small error can prevent the entire code to not work. I do see improvements since the beginning of class where I knew nearly nothing about programming.

I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:

I think I could improve on everything in my programming skills nothing is perfected and I can always improve. But I think overall, I need to spend more time studying and understanding the concepts because it is difficult for me to sit through a 1-2 hour long screencast on top of reading multiple resources.

I can do the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions first:

I usually attempt the WODs first before looking at the screencast, and when I am completely lost I review the screencast. But after reviewing the screencast I restart the WOD from scratch and try to do it without help from the screencast. I think the screencast is really helpful because I have something to refer to when I am lost and not just staring at my screen and having no clue what to do next.

The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:

The labs are somewhat helpful because I am a visual and hands-on learner, so going through them in class is helpful. But I do not think I can complete them with confidence on my own because a majority of the information we learn is on our own and through readings, and I am more of a slower learner so it takes me longer to grasp the information. Also, some of the labs are rushed and made due within the next class or so making it difficult to absorb the information.

I feel ready I am ready to work on the next stage of complexity in programming:

I do not feel ready to move on and work on the next stage of complexity in programming because Assignment 1 felt rushed especially since we did not go through labs 12 & 13 prior to starting Assignment 1. It felt like we were not giving much time to work on Assignment 1 because on top of Assignment 1 we had to work on Invoice 3 & 4 and keep up with the labs.

I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the followings ways:

Personally, I think there should be fewer self-reading assignments and more in-person explanations to go over the information in class. For me, I dislike reading, and learning something like coding is almost like learning a new language. I think it is better to be taught in person because it can be explained thoroughly and I am able to ask questions on the spot. Instead, with readings, I could just be reading and not understand a single thing I read. Although, I think side articles/information that is given to read after explain the information would be helpful.

I feel like the WODs and Labs are a bit rush and should be spaced out more to where they are not stacked on top of each other to have more time to work on them. I think that it will give more time to practice the WODs and to really absorb the information because I feel like I am just doing the WODs to get it done so I do not turn it in late.

These are things that work really well for my learning in this class:

The recorded lectures and screencasts are what works really well for my learning in this class. The recorded lectures make the labs easier to do because I have something to reference if I am lost, same with the screencast for the WODs. Also, the recorded lectures are great to refer back to when I missed any information.
