layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1: UI Basics Technical Essay
date: 2021-02-02
labels:

In the beginning, before I attempted BrowserHistory1 I took a quick look at the screencast before starting so I have a little understanding of what I was supposed to be doing. The first three tasks were easy to complete, but once I got to the fourth task is where I started running into minor issues. My screen set-up was one half VS code and the other half was the instructions page, when I copy and pasted the text from the link I would not be able to see the entire text. So I would manually space out the line to fit the entire text on the screen, I was wasting a lot of time doing this. Another thing I was doing that was not efficient was creating a new <body> for each text not knowing to I could use the <p> function instead. Other problems I ran into were trying to figure out the code to link the websites to a specific word in the paragraph and figuring out the code on linking the table of contents to each section. When I was able to figure out the code on how to make links in the table of contents I was setting the links to the websites from the paragraphs instead so I misread the instructions and was doing it wrong. My first attempt took me about 40 minutes which was very frustrating because my time was almost double the DNF time. Every attempt I was over the time limit and DNF I deleted the file and restarted. It took me about four attempts to be able to complete it in 16 minutes and be in the Av range. After each failed attempt, I would look back at the screencast for each part I was stuck on and study it for a few minutes to be able to understand what is happening. Through each attempt, I was improving by cutting down my time and remembering the codes and their functions. I was able to build on my skills and clean up my code, making it more efficient and presentable.

On my first attempt on BrowserHistory2, I had trouble trying to link my style.css file to my index.html and I could not figure out how to get fonts on to VS code. I tried to refer back to BrowserHistory1 but it did not work out so I deleted my project and took a look at the screencast for some help. When I got the style.css file to link to my index.html and the correct fonts into my file I was able to move on and work on changing the fonts and colors. In my second attempt, I DNF because I was taking too much time trying to figure out the references and why the file would not open on the webserver. I deleted my second attempt and in attempt three I just opened the project up through the file explore and continued from there to check my updated work. Although it took me three attempts to get an Av, I learned how to link a css file to the html to be able to change the look of a webpage.

BrowserHistory3 I felt like I had a hard time because there were fewer instructions for this WOD and it was more vague than the previous two WODs. In my first attempt, I had difficulty figuring out how to divide the sections, so I paused my project and took a look at the screencast. I deleted my first attempt and started on my second attempt, again I got lost on what specifier and references to input into my style.css file, so I referenced back to the screencast. I studied the video again before doing my third attempt, and after I was able to complete it in a timely manner. But when I reviewed my work I noticed that I did not do one task, which was not removing the “table of contents” header so I deleted the whole project and attempted it again to fix my mistake. Also, another minor issue I had was the “Chrome” section was not aligned to the other two browser sections, it did not affect anything but it threw me off a little. With my fourth attempt, I tried restarting the VS code program, and when I finished my work the browser sections were aligned. Overall, I took four attempts and I completed BrowserHistory3 in the Rx time.

In conclusion, the more attempts taken provides more practice and helped me remember the functions and use of tools in VS code. I quickly realized that the readings are very important in preparing for the WODs. A big factor in being able to understand and retain all the information is not worrying about the time and not rushing. I felt like the time limit put a lot of pressure on me to try get my work done as fast as possible.
