---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay
date: 2021-05-03
labels:
---
Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details

In assignment 2, we had to create a login/register page for our website. With the registration and login pages we needed users to register an account into the server and login in order to successfully redirect them to checkout the items in the invoice page. To make sure the user is registered on the server, the server checks to validate the username and password and if it is correct the user can go to the invoice page, if they are not registered an error happens they are not allowed to go through the invoice page.

What did you learn from this assignment?

In assignment 2 I learned how to create a registration/login page for a website using the POST method. Also, being able to make the server validate a user before moving on to the next page, and redirect a user if the login is not correct or registered.
Another thing I learned from this assignment was that it takes a lot of time and patience. I need to set more time aside to work on the assignments.

Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).

No, I did not work with a partner. I worked by myself.

How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?

When I needed help I would refer back to the lectures and look back at the previous labs we did in class. If I was completely stuck I scheduled a meeting with Professor Port. I needed help fixing my invoice page not appearing when submitting the quantity of items after logging in.

How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?

Assignment 1 was more difficult because we had to build the foundation for assignment 2 and we had to work on all the files. But for assignment 2 it was more focused on the server file. It was not easy but very still different from assignment 1.

Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging

I spent about 35% of my time thinking about how to do something, 15% writing code, and 50% testing and debugging.

Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?

What worked well for me in this project was creating the CSS and register/login page because it was like assignment 1. Also, there were not many changes to the code since I used the templates from w3schools.
What did not work well was copying and pasting code from previous labs because it got me a little confused and lost when trying to solve the issues I was having.

If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?

If I could go back in time things I would do differently are manage my time better and ask for more help. Time management was one of my biggest issues because on top of managing all my other courses and working it made it difficult for me to find time to spend a large amount of time working on this assignment. What I would do is start earlier so I can plan ahead and have more time to work on assignment 2. Another issue I had was trying to figure out my problems and not requesting for help earlier. This affected me because it set me back on my time management and being able to finish the assignment in a timely manner. What I would do differently is not to be afraid to request for help as much as I needed. 
