---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E3: Peforming WODs Technical Essay
date: 2021-02-18
labels:
---

In the Invoice1 WOD we created a table for a sales receipt of five different products. We had to dynamically code the variables, numbers, and expressions of the needed values in the correct place on the table. Further details on the Invoice1 WOD can be found through this link: https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-invoice1.html

Working on Invoice1 was very tedious because I would have to copy and paste the products and the product data in the row cells four times. After pasting, I would have to change the number for each variable that corresponded to it, this process slowed me down a lot. There were a few times where I missed the numbers and did not change them, and my code would not work or show the results I wanted it to be because the numbers were not correct. What worked well for me was adding the // comments because it helps ogranize my code and made it easier to find.

To prepare for this WOD I reviewed what we did in Lab6 because a lot of the code taught and used in Lab6 was used in Invoice1. Similar to the previous WODs when I got stuck I would refer to the video on the part I got stuck on, then delete the project and start again.

What I could have done better to prepare for the WOD was spend more time reviewing the readings and previous labs to make sure I fully understand everything. I do not think there is anything I would do differently for the next WOD, I would continue referring to the screencast if I am stuck. But maybe after watching the screencast on the parts I get stuck on I could review the material before fully restarting the project.
